Research on contour reconstruction (thoughts on May 1, 2006)
------------------------------------------------------------

Contour reconstruction, the construction of a surface model from contours,
is an instance of the general problem of creating a model from data points.
It is often called reconstruction, since the most common way to find contour data is
by probing an existing object in slices, such as CT/MR/topographic-maps/microscopy/laser-scan.
However, it is certainly possible to gather contours independently of any pre-existing
surface model: for example, we are presently working on the contour reconstruction of 
cell proliferation profiles (curves plotting cell numbers against time, with each contour
representing a different drug concentration): the surface implied by this data,
which captures cell growth in the context of changing drug concentrations, 
does not exist before construction.

Contour data is organized into slices and has connectivity information, which
makes it more organized than arbitrary point data.
A contour is basically a planar polygon.
It is a set of points confined to a plane, with some order imposed.
The planes of the polygons of a contour dataset are assumed to be parallel.
(It is possible to generalize to pseudo-parallel planes,
where pseudo-parallel planes don't overlap, and preserve their relative order,
but may stray from a plane otherwise.)

The first stage of contour reconstruction is to organize the contours into 'metatubes', 
branches that are topologically equivalent to a cylinder.
Each metatube may be triangulated independently, and then built into a smooth surface
(by defining isocurves through flow across the triangulation).
The remaining challenge is to smoothly merge neighbouring metatubes.
This involves matching of tangent ribbons, which can be inherited from neighbouring metatubes
and incorporated into the interpolation process.
One challenging issue is the noncircular inheritance of ribbon information between metatubes.
Another challenge is the passoff at a branch, including the construction of a supercurve
merging several contours and the reconstruction of the hole between the children metatubes
and the parent metatube.

For many datasets, including the research on cell proliferation profiles,
{\bf the smooth reconstruction of a single metatube} is a significant step.
Moreover, it suggests strategies for the reconstruction of more general branching structures, 
through the averaging or blending of individual metatubes.

Pipeline: points to polygons to curves to triangulation to isocurves to surface.
Tools: doxygen, extreme programming
Possible extension: flowing isocurves across an arbitrary triangulation (not organized in contours)
Possible extension: slicing a triangular mesh to generate contours, to create smooth surfaces
Underlying software libraries: contour triangulation, Bezier curves, Bezier surfaces
Relevant subdirectories: ~jj/Cbin, ~jj/software/data/contourData, 
	                 ~jj/software/project/contour/cardio/cardioSrcOnNavy (see cardio.c)
Project directory: ~jj/software/projectSmooth/3d/contour
