{\bf Global research structure}

I.   Extension of solid primitives
II.  Medial axis, bisector
IV.  Classification.

Extension of solid primitives (i.e., definition of efficient operations on 
		on an extended vocabulary)

	Intersection
	Blending
	Representation.

	Cyclides
	Ringed surfaces
	Ruled surfaces
	Quadrics (e.g., when can they be blended easily? simpler tests for
			planar intersection; geometric representation for
			hyperboloids of one sheet)

	Future: more swept surfaces (e.g., ringed/ringed, ruled/ruled,
			superquadrics)
*		generalized patch representations of cyclides (e.g., tetrahedral)
		intersection of cyclide patches
*		projective cyclide extensions
		[traditional line intersection algorithm seems suboptimal:
		 sweep/observation.tex]
		other envelopes of conics (other than quadrics, cyclides, Blutel
			surfaces)
		can you define a more general inversion operator whose 
			`spherical' mirror can better separate data (via
			inversion) for set classification?
			e.g., make two sets linearly separable that used
				to only be separable by a complex curve
			suggested by Isaac Bankman of APL

Medial axis, bisector

	Points: Voronoi diagram
	Medial axis of simple polygon (Lee)
	Lines and circles (Yap).
	Approximate computation of other medial axes.

	Safest path, skeleton, equal partition, feature size/width

	Point/parametric curve: exact computation of bisector.

	Future: Medial axis of polyhedron, surfaces
			e.g., to compute angle of two bronchial tubes
		Fast approximate solution for collections of simple curves.
		Bisector of curves in 3-space.
		Removal of fragileness to local perturbation.

Classification.
		
	Creation of atlas
		concise for distribution, added structure over patient model
		polyhedral is not sufficiently concise or exact

	Identification of landmarks (feature extraction)
*		Parabolic, umbilic points; lines of curvature; extrema.
		% Other intrinsic geometric points of a Bezier surface

	Mapping between structures.
		Deformation of atlas organ to patient's organ.

Surface and solid models for surgery.

	inquiry, visualization, and planning 

	How wide a catheter can fit through this passage?
	What is the boundary of this organ/bone?
	Give me a good reconstruction of this data.

Miscellaneous medical projects.

	Radiation Oncology
		Active imaging: real time location during surgery
			necessary for registration to moving patient 
			during surgery
		Traditional beam optimization
		Verification of plan delivery
			sophisticated plan may backfire
		Functional defn of geometry
			e.g., beam tolerance of each region
			(classification)
	
	Neurosurgery
		Registration to moving head.	
		Optimal path to tumor

	Craniofacial surgery
		Surgical simulation of adding bone
		`Morphing' abnormal structure to normal
		Creating optimal model under degrees of freedom of bone mvt.

	Robot guided surgery

		Camera positioning, camera tracking of feature
		Real time image processing and modeling
		Stereoscopic vision
		Registration to deformable soft tissue: no longer 6dof rigid
		Flexible scopes and navigation
