medical:

	atlas building:
		flexible surfaces (such as flexible quadrics)
			application: morphing of classification from atlas to
					patient (realistic?)
		concise but geometrically-rich surface representations 
			of anatomy for atlases
			- don't want volume rendered since too space inefficient
			- want surfaces
			- would prefer better than polygons again for space

	reconstruction
		area refinement of reconstructed Bezier surfaces
			(using area information of original and
				intermediate slices)
		multidirectional reconstruction (sag-cor-trans reconstruction)
			not just one set of parallel slices: several
				e.g., sagittal, coronal, axial brain slices
				e.g., putamen data
				even non-orthogonal sets of directions
				MRI machines no longer creates one set of
					parallel slices as in old CT
			extensions of reconstruction algorithms
			making reconstructions consistent with all slices
			extension of Coons surfaces
				Coons: 2 directions
				super-Coons: >=3 directions
		optimal correspondence via min-area lofting

	segmentation
		model based segmentation
		creating parameterized model of liver

	domains: neurosurgery, minimally invasive surgery, 
		 craniofacial correction, liver segmentation,
		 heart reconstruction

CAGD:
	
	(c,r,o) swept surfaces in Bezier/NURBS format
	CAD/CAM swept: e.g.
	intersection: ringed/ringed
	bisectors/Voronoi diagram
	


Keywords for my present research interests (7/10/94)
------------------------------------------

I. Curves and surfaces for geometric modeling, CAD/CAM, visualization.

A. swept surfaces (surfaces generated by the sweep of an object)
	domain: ruled surfaces
		canal surfaces (envelopes of spheres of constant radius)
		envelopes of spheres of varying radius
		sweeps of more general objects

	operations: Bezier/NURBS (rational) representation
		intersection
		fly-throughs/animation
		blending/joining

B. cyclides (in general, tractable quartic surfaces)
	domain: Dupin cyclides, projective images of cyclides, `supercyclides'
	operations: blending, intersection, representation, construction

C. blending and intersection in general

D. curves and surfaces with efficiently-computable
	arc-length, surface area, curvature, etc.
	for mensuration in CAD/CAM and medical applications

E. bisectors (leading to Voronoi diagrams) for curves and surfaces



II. Biomedically motivated curves and surfaces

F. reconstruction from multiple directions of parallel slices 
	(e.g., coronal/transaxial/sagittal)

G. (concise) flexible/deformable surfaces via CAGD techniques
	e.g., necessary and sufficient conditions for quadric patches
	applications to building of anatomical-atlas

